Do you think it's possible?
You said you're not saying it's necessarily a good idea to launch a social
network. Do you think it's possible today?
Maybe you can put yourself in those shoes to launch a social network
that achieves the scale of a Facebook or a Twitter or an Instagram
and maybe even greater scale. Absolutely. How do you do it?
<laugh> asking for a friend.
Yeah. If I knew I I'd probably be doing it right now and not sitting here. So.
So I mean, there's a lot of ways to ask this question.
One is create a totally new product market fit, create a new market,
create something like Instagram,
which is like create something kind of new or literally out compete
Facebook at its own thing or out compete Twitter at its own thing.
The only way to compete. Now, if you wanna build a,
a large social network is to look for the cracks, look for the openings. Um,
you know, no one competed, I mean,
no one competed with the core business of Google,
no one competed with the core business of Microsoft.
You don't go at the big guys doing exactly what they're doing.
Instagram didn't win because it tried to be a visual
Twitter.
Like we spotted things that either Twitter wasn't going to do or refuse
to do images and feed for the longest time, right.
Or that Facebook wasn't doing or not paying attention to because they were
mostly desktop at the time. And we were purely mobile, purely visual.
Often there are opportunities sitting there. You just have to, you have to,
you have to figure out like, uh, I think like there's a strategy book.
I can't remember the name,
but talk about moats and just like the best place to play
is where your competitor,
like literally can't pivot because structurally they're set up not to be there
and that's where you win. Um, and what's fascinating is like,
do you know how many people are like, image is Facebook?
Does that Twitter does that? I mean, how wrong were they really wrong?
And these are some of the smartest people in Silicon valley. Right.
But now Instagram exists for a while. How is it that Snapchat could then exist?
Makes no sense. Like plenty of people would say, well, there's Facebook,
no images. Okay. Okay. Instagram, I'll give you that one, but wait.
Now another image based social networks gonna get really big and then TikTok
comes along like the prior. So you asked me, is it possible?
The only answer reason I'm answering yes.
Is because my prior is that it's happened once every, I don't know,
3, 4, 5 years consistently.
And I can't imagine there's anything structurally that would change that. Um,
so that's why I answer that way. Not because I know how I just,
when you see a pattern,
you see a pattern and there's no reason to believe that's gonna stop. And.
It's subtle too, because like you said, uh, Snapchat and TikTok,
they're all doing the same space of things,
but there's something fundamentally different about like a three second video
and a five second video and a 15 second video and a one minute video and a one
hour video, right? Like fundamentally.
Different, fundamentally different. I mean,
I think one of the reasons Snapchat exists is because Instagram was so focused
on posting great,
beautiful manicured versions of yourself throughout time.
And there was this enormous demand of like, Hey, I really like this behavior.
I love using Instagram, but man,
I just like wish I could share some thing going on in my day. <laugh> like,
do I really have to put it on my profile?
Do I really have to make it last forever? Do I really? Um,
and that opened up a door, it created a market. Right.
And then what's fascinating is Instagram had an Explorer page for the longest
time and it was image driven. Right. Um,
but there's absolutely a behavior where you,
you open up Instagram and you sit on the Explorer page all day that is
effectively TikTok, but obviously focused on videos.
And it's not like you could just put the explore page in TikTok form and it
works. It had to be video. It had to have music.
These are the hard parts about product development that are very hard to
predict. But, um, they're all,
all versions of the same thing with varying.
If you line them up in a bunch of dimensions, they're just like, kind of on
they're different values of the same dimensions, which is like,
I guess easy to say in retrospect.
But like if I were an entrepreneur going after that area, I'd ask myself like,
where's the opening? What needs to exist? Because TikTok in exist now you.